We already know what are
the operational needs of funds, what
is the net investment it has to have,
what a company has to carry out
to be able to carry out the operational
activity, the daily activity
of the company.
And we also saw that they depend on,
if we see it in the balance sheet,
it depends on the balance of customers,
it depends on the balance of stocks
we have and it depends
on the balance of suppliers.
The lower the NOFs, the smaller
that investment is needed,
the better, because that
minimizes the financial
needs we have.
Today we will look at the NFC
from a different perspective.
We will analyze the working capital
cycle or the cycle of exploitation
or also known as the middle
period of financial maturity,
as you see it is called
from different types, but we
always talk about the same.
Basically, the NOFs, that amount
we have to finance depends on three
magnitudes, three magnitudes
that we will relate in a cycle
and are magnitudes as to
the number of days.
You will understand well.
Let’s think of a company that buys
goods or buys raw materials,
it doesn’t matter if it’s a commercial
company that is a manufacturer
and pays its suppliers
a few days later and is the
average payment period.
That company, in addition, from
the time it buys the goods until
it sells them, since it usually takes
an average number of days that
depends on the rotation of
the inventories of stocks.
The higher the rotation, the shorter
that time limit and there comes a day
when it sells.
And in this case what it does
is pay a few days later.
You could charge the bill, but in this
case it costs a few days later,
it’s the average period of collection.
The working capital
cycle is the number of days
since we pay the suppliers,
that is, from the
time the treasury leaves
our box until we
recover it.
It depends on the three factors
we have seen.
It depends on the average payment period,
depends on the average number of
days in stock and depends on
the average collection period.
What we need to do is optimize
these sizes the later we
pay the suppliers.
The less time it is in the stock
in the warehouse, that is,
the higher the rotation
and the sooner we charge
customers, the better.
This cycle has been cut.
What implications does that have?
The operational needs
of funds are much smaller.
Let us look at two examples.
Let’s think first of a distributor
or a wholesaler of furniture.
And we will think that it sells,
on the one hand, sells to
small distributors, retail and
also sells to the consumer on
a giant ship.
Let’s look at the two cycles.
The first is the following.
Buy the furniture from the
manufacturers, pay them 30 days.
From the time you buy until you
sell the furniture, it usually
takes an average of 90 days,
which other dealers do is
charge 30 days.
The furniture store pays you
for 30 days.
So what is the working capital
cycle in this case?
It is 90 days.
From the time the supplier pays until
it charges customers, 90 days
pass.
You have to fund the activity
for 90 days.
But, as we said, it also sells to
the private.
You can go to the ship and buy
furniture.
In this case, the individuals
pay the bill, not pay 30 days.
We have shortened the cycle.
We cut it from 90 to 60 days.
This activity, the sale
to the private, in this case,
has a smaller operational
fund needs.
In either of the two, if we
analyze the situation balance
sheet, what this company has
is that it has positive NOFs,
because suppliers help you to
finance part of the operational
activity, but not all.
Therefore, you have to have that permanent
investment there that you have
to finance.
As we can see, the red block
is the total amount of the
financial needs that the company
has.
Now let’s go to a case where
NOFs are negative.
That is, we do not have to make
an investment because the
company’s own activity is financing
the operations.
When is this given?
For example, in
the food market.
This is the most common case that
always occurs.
And what we do is that stocks,
food products are purchased, and
we have a high and average
rotation from when they are purchased
until they leave the supermarket,
about 30
days pass.
What happens here is,
look, as our suppliers are
companies much smaller than
us, we’ll pay them 90
days.
We pay at the expense.
Look at how the situation is.
We buy goods, we pay for 90 days,
but at 30 days we have already
sold them.
In this case, the cycle
is negative.
That is, the suppliers are
helping us to finance the
company’s operational activity
for 60 days.
The NOFs are negative.
We do not really need to make an
investment.
Very simple, right?
You buy, but pay very late and
when you have to pay the supplier
you already have the stocks,
those goods.
Is the provider funding you?
If we go to the balance
sheet, we see it clearly.
In this case, NOFs are negative
and the overall financial needs
have decreased enormously.
So, the providers are helping
us finance the fixed
assets.